If you don't have an agent operating system, this is one of those powerful ways to use AI. You can basically automate and build anything you want. You can plug it into custom workflows. You can build your own AI tool in like a few clicks. And also, you can plug this into a memory system where you can build and automate anything. But also, you can give your agents context straight away. I'll show you some examples. So, we've got, for example, like a movie creator right here with an AI agent that can generate amazing videos in like one single click. We also have for example like a music agent that can generate music whenever we need to. We can have full teams of agents working as a zero human company in an organization chart so that they can build anything we want. So today we're going to answer some of the latest questions we've had from the AI profit boarding community in terms of how to use it, how to get the most out of it and how to make sure that your agent operating systems are as powerful and as useful as they possibly can be. So let's get straight into this. So, the first question that we had was from Yuki, and Yuki was asking about an AI agent system that can respond to phone calls. So, one of the best ways I've seen to do this is we've actually got a tutorial on how to do this with 11 Labs. So, you can call your agent, you can give it a phone number, and then you can go back and forth with it directly. There's only two drawbacks, which is number one, if you set it up, you're probably going to use 11 Labs, and if you use 11 Labs, it can be a little bit slow. And also, just be careful that you don't share the number. We set it up but then we deleted it simply because it's not very good for security. If someone can call your agent at any time, how does the agent know whether it's you or not? Maybe you could give it like a word to be activated. But yeah, you just have to be a little bit careful that. But you can set up with 11 laps plus Hermes. And there's a full guide on how to do it. Now with the guide as well, what you can actually do is you can give this full guide from 11 laps directly to your AI agent just by copying the article. And then it can set it up and code it for you. and you just have to plug in the APIs. So, we have a guide plus tutorial on how to do this here, but I would just use it temporarily. I wouldn't use it like all the time. So, we've got another question here from Yazim. He said, "Julian Goldie, I feel a bit lost." This sort of stuff, I would just simplify as much as you can. So, for example, if you look at this list, you've got like nine different ways of automating and automating different AI agents using these workflows. But if you want to feel focused and if you feel lost right now, I would just simplify and go, okay, let's do one thing at a time. If you try to do nine things at once, of course you're going to feel lost, right? That's not going to feel good at all. So, what I recommend instead is that you do one thing at a time. So, if you look at this list, the best thing and the easiest thing that you can do is probably manage your emails. And the way that you can do this is you can just get your Google Workspace API. You can plug that into your AI agent. You can ask it to manage your emails based on that and Hermes will actually guide it through with you. Then once you've done that, then you can move on to the next thing. The next thing I wouldn't try and attempt all nine things at once cuz otherwise you will feel lost and a bit overwhelmed. Then for managing emails, you can use something like Himalaya as a skill. Yeah, this is something that I see quite often is like people try and do too much at once. You just want to focus at one thing at a time. So if you look at this full system for example, we started off by creating the chat feature, then the talk, then homes Javis, then Hermes Oracle. We didn't try and build it all in one day. Just one thing at a time. You can do one thing per week. There's no rush on this. You're already super early and you're ahead of 99% people. So it's just a case of making sure that you don't overwhelm yourself and you still enjoy the journey. We got another question here about Claude Chrome browser and how to use it. So you can use Claude browser extension here and you just make sure you've connected that inside Claude on your connector settings. So if you go to settings over here and then you go over to connectors inside connectors go to customize and then you can add the Claude in Chrome browser extension right here. However, I don't recommend using that approach because it can be a little bit slow. So if you want claude to operate your claude chrome browser, a better way to do it is through the API. So for example, you can get firecrawl API and then you can give that to claude and it can read read the web, search the web, etc. And that's a lot better than just relying on clawed browser use. The reason I don't use claw browser use or computer use so much is it's like the most slow inefficient way to use an AI agent. Whereas, for example, if you give it an API, it's way faster for browsing the web, for getting information, for doing research for you. Also, if you're using firecrawl, firecrawl is actually free. So, you can get a free API from firecraw.dev. And it's way easier for the agents to actually crawl and use the web using this API. So, we got a question from David on Grock build. How good is it? Is better than it was? That is my answer. So, we've actually tested everything on Goldie Bench. As you can see right here, Claude Fable 5 of course still beats it. We built some pretty awesome stuff with Grop build though, and you can check it out over here if you want to see, okay, what did we create individually? The thing that I would say is it's a lot better. And also, if you're already subscribed to Twitter, then you get it for free. It's decent, but I'd still rate Fable 5 as the best and Claude in general is the best for that. Now, just because it's a lot smoother, but it's decent. It's not bad. As you say, we've got a setup here. So Blake was asking, "How do you go about sandboxing Agent OS on your local computer?" So I mean, if you want to sandbox it, you just not connect it um to anything else, right? You just keep it locally and you limit all the permissions. So you can say, for example, to Hermes, limit all the permissions you have. You could also set it up on Docker. I've seen some people inside AI profit boardroom put agent OS inside Docker. Now, if you don't want to sandbox it, so for example, I know Blake here, you're asking about using uh mobile, you can use something like cloud player or scale for doing this. Now, I don't do that for security reasons. I don't think it's very good to have a setup like this on a VPS, but if you prefer to do that, then you can use tail scale or cloudflare for that. We we actually have a member who broke this down and you can see his full tutorial below. The other cool thing is like people are sharing their agent OS setup and how they've used it. So you can see here for example Eric is sharing his setup for the agent OS looks great. Um Daniel was asking can you run the agent OS on a Chromebook? And the answer is yes. I think you could because it's really just like a web app so it's pretty lightweight. Doesn't take up a lot of power especially if you're not running a local model. So I think the answer is absolutely yes. You can see Chris as well. He's already set up his agent OS. He's using it for content creation. is vi coded a SAS and he's looking available with social media content. So we actually have a full section on how we use AI for social media. You can see it right here. Um but some of the best things you can set up is a video agent setup here and also Twitter as well. So these are two good options for creating social media content based on what's working for us. One thing I will say is like a lot of people don't post on X, but for example, we'll reach like 560,000 people a day. As you can see, yesterday we reached 560,000 people in one single day using Twitter and AI. So, it's pretty powerful, especially if you have the right systems in place, which you can find right here. Rain was asking about how can you build a team of agents similar to a corporate structure. So, you can actually do that with Paperclip. Paperclip is really good for building a team of agents. It's an open source project. You can have teams of agents. You can have a full company setup as well. So you can see here we've got a full organization chart of different agents working together. That could be Hermes, could be openclaw, it could be clawed, it could be many different types of agents working together. And then you can have different projects and different setups and you can see everything they've built inside the issues tab. So if you're looking to build something like that, I would recommend paperclip. You can either use it inside the agent OS or it's an open source project so you could set up as standalone as well. And so that's basically it. We've answered all the questions. So, if you want to be able to ask me questions like this and I do video tutorials for you as you seen today, you can get that inside the AI profit boardroom link in the comments description or go to the apiprofit.com. Inside the classroom, you get access to all of my new latest trainings. We actually add new advanced tutorials based on what we build inside the agent OS and also you can get the full agent OS system that we update daily over here. You get a video tutorial with it and a zip file to install it. You can jump on weekly coaching calls where we can wire it in together. You can ask questions, share your screen, meet other community members, etc. Inside the map, you can see that we have loads of people in different areas you can connect with depending on where you are in the world. And that's all available inside the professionally too and ask me any questions. Some people say, you know, is this too difficult to set up, etc. I've shown you multiple examples of people already sending out from my group, but also you can see we have 194 pages of testimonials and wins and people sharing their own agent operating systems. But I know if I'm nontechnical and I can set it up and they can too, then anyone can do this. Anyone can set this up. So feel free to get it. Link in the comments description or go to the aiprofitbomb.com. See you inside there. Cheers.
