Thank you for being here. I know it's hard after lunch. Uh hopefully you have your coffee with you. I know it's a beautiful day. Thankfully, we're in Sydney. We're not in Brighton or London, whatever, because otherwise nobody will be in the room. Everybody will be taking the sun somewhere outside. Uh but we will have more time for that later on. And uh and I have to say something, right? I it's always amazing for me coming to the antipotes literally from where I live and seeing people as hungry for to learn more about SEO engaging testing identifying new opportunities and whether LLMs or Tik Tok or whatever new platforms discovery search platforms come our way I'm pretty sure that that will continue and it's amazing to see how we keep learning and evolving at the same time and today I come to talk about uh I think a topic that we will only see more of. I know that I have other fellow SU speakers here Jess who's also going to cover in from a different angle but also uh something that is uh overlapping a little bit with this subject because it's so so so important and we need to really pay more attention of unfortunately as SEOs I believe that because of how we started how be we became a thing as a as an industry we have been usually we tend to be very tactical right like very focused on the tactics on what is actually a ranking factor or not. I I don't care if it is not as just show me the proof at the end of the day and having to get buy in and make it all very hard to make things happen like even the minimum one. So uh hopefully after this presentation I will give you more reasons more compelling reasons proof resources tools to make it happen. SEO for brands visibility and recognition and I will be going through a lot of resources but no worries I will be publishing uh my slides later on in linking if you don't have any linking in X in SEO if you're not subscribed to SEO boo you you have the opportunity to do it now no worries it's free I will be sending the link to the presentation over there too so you have the resource right there and I know that today I have a little bit of more time than usual than the ones that I have for presentations. But I will get started and let's see if my clicker now my clicker actually needs a little bit of coffee because somehow it doesn't go through or maybe I need to No, I don't need to turn it on, isn't it? Let me Nope. Now it really a little bit of more coffee, I think. Anyway, so why this topic like Alita really brand recognition? Are we really in SEO? And yes, I believe that a very high level SEO is about two main areas right to today more than ever uh is about solving the solution or growing at the end of the day whether the brand or the product problem right when I talk about oops now we continue to be I don't know if I should really click on it's like my little hands that need a little bit more no let me see if I can get. No, let me Is there another one or should I try to manage with this one in particular? Maybe I was the one the with the bad luck of the but clicker or no. It's stuck. No, it don't want to break it. I don't want James like chasing me all over the world for Oh, for the broken clicker here or maybe the the battery. Yes, thank you. I will wait. No worries. So, I I can continue. No worries. So, why brand or product, right? At a high level is whether a brand problem or a product problem. A brand problem, if we think about it, is even more important than ever when the company is small. Is the challenge for very small companies. when they are starting brand is popularity singles is content establishing who they are as a as a as a company let me take a look yes perfect I think now it is thank you very much so popularity and authority growing it establishing it is critical it's always critical but it's even more critical when you are a small company right then for bigger companies it's more of a product problem if you think about it it makes sense product has to do with execution, with alignment, with buy in, with technical when you have millions of URLs, technical SEO actually becomes critical, not when you have 10 landing pages on a local service website, right? So, yes, um, in terms of SEO areas of importance is is pretty much this, right? Um, very high level, very oversimplified. We know that there are many other things of course but yes the brand problem has to do with backlinks and content and we need a lot of them at the start especially at the start to establish the website brand and entity and recognition and authority and when the website grows we won't necessarily need that that much of that because there will be a proper workflow a proper base and it will be about focusing on aligning the product the exe execution the buy in minimizing bureaucracy coordinating with the product managers a lot of that unfortunately but yes that's the life of enterprise level SEO too and ultimately the sites that to succeed in both are the ones that finally win end up winning are those many times online first brands like for example Zillow in the US right u Zillow well the they are huge millions of URLs but if you remember I I don't know if you're that old and potentially I feel a little bit old here but I remember when they started they were a startup slash and slash and um and um they became to get to be known out there because they started with their estimates right the the pretty much the metric to assess the price of properties in the US to have an easy index an easy reference of how much any property will cost in the US right them without like a actually handy and useful reference for buyers for anybody who would like to buy or rent a property in a very simple way to understand. So they establish a brand uh to be one of the major players to be recognized of an their for their actual expertise in the property market because they developed that from scratch being a online first company. They didn't exist at offline. They were not one of the major real estate companies in the US. And as an outcome, these type of sites end up attracting a very high share of whether direct and or branded traffic, branded search traffic. They're pretty much when you go and take a look uh through any tools as Mr. Rush similar whatever like what is the share of their non-branded and branded traffic it is very split and many many times there's even more branded traffic. But it's not because they don't invest in SEO. It's not because they don't invest in nonbranded non-branded SEO um and not because they are not already their leaders in their non-branded organic search rankings already. they are but they have such a massive brand that everybody and their mother are searching for them directly whenever they think about that potential product or or service right and often they end up attracting things like this right even more as I mentioned it's like there are so many examples of this type of sites out there and you might say Ala what are you are you for real here do you want to come here and make us admire ire or to try to copy or to try to have as a reference all of these major sites that many many times unfortunately we end up disliking and despising and complaining about because why Google has this favoritism towards big brands it's not fair right like why little guys they deserve also to win we we also can do great things and many times the experience the product that we invest on is even better than the product of big brands, but their brands are huge and they end up not allowing the smaller players to succeed. And it's a sad reality, but please note something, this is also true. There are also major offline brands, huge brands that are incapable of translating their authority to online. It was so funny to see this tweet. I don't know if you saw from Yeah. or whatever he's called now complaining about not ranking in the top position for Jezy or the the shoes names the shoe lines but the Adidas website with a very old school landing page. Yeah. The he should ask Kim Kardashian because she actually does a really good stuff with schemes. Anyway anyway yeah just ask your ask. Um but my my thing here is like why instead of complaining we help to grow our own websites our own clients brand recognition and visibility because realistically it's true that we are not going going to come up with something like examples of silo from one year to another but we will help to establish the ground a bit and eventually after a few years it will be much more straightforward and easier and it will Let's say that type of work that in a few years we will be happy to have done in the past and it will highly highly facilitate us to rank for some of the top terms in our industry to be recognized as some of the authority and in the worst case scenario even if it doesn't end up helping us we expected in organic search is going to compound in so many different ways directly through direct traffic engagement conversions and through many of the channels because this is a type of activity that end up benefiting different channels not only SEO right so you might say ala like yeah but this is not one of my major activities I have so much stuff to do what do you say it's actually not really SEO either if you work with major clients they also have their own brand related or focus people marketing people they won't want us necessarily to get involved in event yet another activity that they do. But realistically, we have enough proof, enough data already showing that this should be one of our critical actions to take and activities to get involved on. So Eric Schmidt 2008 was already saying that brands were the solution for the internet cess poolool. who was not that kind to the internet still back then and he hadn't seen all the AI spam that exists today. Um, last year I had the opportunity to interview Danny Zullivan and I asked about a lot of stuff and one of the questions that I asked him directly is like what's going on with big brands? You have different rules. what is like this not fair etc etc and he eventually says something that they did care about brands whether big or small the fact that potentially they were not already yet recognizing brand authority of smaller niche oriented vertical oriented brands that was another matter that was another problem they wanted or they want to get eventually there that is a challenge that they have but They aim for that. But they do want to take brand into account because they recognize that brands are connected with certain characteristics that will make users to recognize and endorse and engage with real companies. And at the end of the day, they really want to make a case of ranking real companies out there. And this also has to do with people first. All of the people first content developing a trusted brand with a great product experience that Google can recognize is what the people first guidelines are about. If you go to them, the stuff that they say like pretty much like you should be writing content not for the sake of that there's a particular demand or behavior out there looking for this particular term or topic. No, but it's because it's a need of your actual customer. You should be creating it whether Google existent or not. You should be creating it because you will fulfill a real need of someone who wants to buy your product or service at the end of the day. And this goes well beyond the brand. Realistically, the brand popularity or authority. When we talk about the brand, it's like, oh, back popularity. This Yes. Yes. that that's there's that but it's also critical to align it align it for content and I have a great example for this I don't know if you saw it probably you did I'm pretty sure that you did what happened with Hopspot at the end of last year in one of the latest updates from last year did you see it they had a very big hit here um it was initially actually sheriff from one of the team member Ryan Law. Take a look at the big hit that they they had in their blog. Did their all of the blog post traffic go to hell? No, it was a handful of them. But they were overrelying of these harmful pages or blog posts or guides that were getting tons of traffic that realistically had nothing to do with what they offer. This blog post, these guides were not about marketing, were not about CRM, were not even about anything related to marketing automation. No, they were like CV planners, whatever. So these were obviously topic that were disconnected with their brand. They were not on brand. They were not on topic. And at that point, it showed me, it show all of us that take a look. Google is not over relying necessarily anymore as much as they did before purely on the generic runway, generic authority, generic popularity, how however we want to call it, they are actually validating if the information that they are ranking this property on is actually on topic, is connected to their unique selling proposition, with their services, with their products. And I was like, "Yes, because this is what a lot of people complain about." Oh, and I saw another mention about Forbes earlier today. It's like, "It's not fair that they rank for gummy, uh, CBDs, chewable, whatever, and then also financial and then also um, uh, vacuums." It's like, "No, you're not an expert on everything and anything, right? It's it's not fair. Allow the small players to do it." So, yeah. I don't know if Google is ready yet for all of the different topics and verticals. We will see. There is a core update going on at the moment. Let's see. What is obvious here is that the clear steps that at least at the end of last year, those big popular players that were ranking for information for queries that they were not really recognized for as part of their brand or connected to their brand went down. And by the way, they actually won. Hopspot actually won and earned a lot of improvements and and improved their traffic and rankings for many other queries that were actually connected with the brand. The thing is that the search volume was not as huge but very likely I have to question the actual impact that this had to their business because this content had nothing to do with what they offer right at the end of the day. And this is what we should be thinking about. It's like does it actually make sense to target this topic? It's only about a matter of traffic for the sake of traffic or what you are actually offering. Then besides the topic of what we cover and if it is on brand or not. Let's talk about let's talk about user experience page experience and I know that they had we have had a lot of debate about this. It's like again is this really the work of an SEO of a UX expert? I don't care if it is going to impact my ability to rank in the first positions and deliver the best search experience to my users. I want to take care of it. I want to make it top-notch. I want to make sure that the user actually satisfy their need when they land on this page. And so I cannot pretend that that is being done if I have an ad every other paragraph. if I don't allow my users to click on the navigation because there's a popup every single time that they scroll on something and again with the HCU there was a huge debate saying ah does this really impact or not is Google actually taking this into consideration or not I don't care what does this say about your brand that you are yeah sorry I cannot come up with a politically correct term here to say but yes that is the experience experience that you want your users to have with your brand. This is how you want to be recognized. Py showing adverts every other scrolls like yeah what does this say about you? Sorry, but no. I want that my clients, my customers, my users have the best possible experience when they come into my property, into my store, online or offline, into my website or my presence, whatever presence is the engagement that they have with me and the experience that they have with me. So, of course, I want to make sure that my pages are secure, mobile friendly, it loads fast, non-intrusive design, great UX, showing real experience of expertise, satisfy search needs. But do we have proof that Google actually uses the information about the outsour? I don't care. I know that if I am talking about vitamins and I want to make sure that my users end up buying those vitamins from me, I want to make sure that they see that the people writing about this advice about these vitamins and how they need to take it are actually reliable and they which show clearly that they are actual experts because otherwise at least me I wouldn't buy from them. Common sense unfortunately not so common though. But if we think about it, this has to do also with the brand alignment, that recognition and experience that your customers, your users have with you. Also, here's more proof realistically and we have plenty of it. Going a brand is about establishing an identity to facilitate recognition and reputation with are also used surprise surprise by quality raers to evaluate sites. If we go through the PDF that Google has shared with us, there are plenty of mentions of how that is taken into account and yeah the reputation of the website, the recognition of the authors and the expertise of it and of course very obviously the Google Doc links and I completely agree with Kyle with when we me when he mentioned before that the main thing that we learned realistically was that how Google has been denied. trying for so long to take into consideration things that we already knew that it makes sense for them to take into consideration to take into account and one of the very big metrics that was showcased not only in the first Google Doc but in the additional one that Mark will William Williams Cook uh share found and shared later on in the year was the recognition and the metrics that who were identifying connected with the brand right so yeah brand visibility like branded searches are used in Google quality score at a subdomain level it's even more granular or more specific this is from the Mark Williams Cook lick that yes this something that Google takes into account and there's even a good Google patents about this it's not like oh my god really where does this come from if we search for Google patents through the years this is something that they had actually filled many many years ago. But the thing is and this is also something that the complexity of it right is a chicken on X type of situation. Uh there was this study that Patrick talks from HRS and honestly like huge congrats to team here because the team at Asrav is the ones that literally consistently publish original studies and analysis and stuff that really facilitates my life like this one. He assessed if backlinks were still as important, if backlinks were still moving the rankings needle because again Google at some point mentioned that backings were not as important anymore but surprise surprise they are especially for very competitive industries. And the point here on of this particular screenshot is that Patrick was arguing. It's like yes, brands ranking in the top positions tend to get more backlinks and feature more backlinks pointing to them. But it's the chicken or X type of situation. It's like are they getting these back links because they are already very well established brands that people recognize and want to endorse naturally spontaneously or because they are already ranking first anyway. It's much easier to link to them. Anyway, the relevance and the importance and the role of having a brand is obvious when acquiring backlinks, when attracting backlinks, whether spontaneous or not. And then there's also something even more important in an era like the one that we're living today in which literally there are no blue links anymore. And all of the SERs, especially the commercial commercial oriented one, the product ones are like this product carousels. Five products per line. Which one will be clicked by the user? Well, the one of the brand that they recognize, the one of the brand that they trust already, the one of the brand that they have already found at the beginning of the customer journey when searching for information about that particular product or service. And surprise surprise, they find it yet again when looking for the actual product when they're ready to buy later on in the process. Which website are they going to to click on? Which thumbnail? Oh, of the brand that they recognize. It's normal. Yet another reason to establish a brand and a connection and recognition with users. You need those clicks. Let's stand out and let's facilitate and maximize the cry. And then there was another survey published a few days ago um interchangingly sharing how in this case America actually behave in the way that I expect that everybody else behave not differently. They actually click on brands they know in Google search results rather than trying to click on something new completely that they have no idea about. Right. Yes. It's it's understandable. So the point here is to show one hand how this has been there for a long long time. The different roles that it plays in our SEO process, the importance that he this has and how realistically it's not about replacing a brand manager. I don't expect we go out of here being brand managers or brand expert. I I I am certainly not. However, I know that there are certain activities that those that are actually taking care of the brand and pushing campaigns that have an impact with the brand or to the brand. Well, I should be talking to them in certain ways with certain actions with certain principles that I expect to share today and I hope that they are also useful for you to start taking action and making the most out of it. And here's a little bit of a summary. And I hope that we can go through all of these few actions to expand, maximize and to facilitate the recognition of the brand by Google because a lot of this stuff is already in there. But it can be like this, right? Google doesn't recognize it yet because we haven't neiarily configured certain things or align certain things to facilitate the work. Right? on our first literally the first thing that we need to do to make this happen is something that I don't know how many of us already do but it's fundamental right understanding your brand positioning how you differentiate versus your competitors why you should be chosen over them what is your unique selling proposition by which audience you cannot be everything for everybody too I know that I sorry but I don't provide uh link building or local SEO My clients are enterprise level and I do a strategical work for them, technical work. If they want a copywriter, sorry, I can't help you with uh search optimized content strategy, but I'm not going to be writing content for you. That's not me. Or I'm not going to be l building links for you. Oh, if I identify that there's a need of backlinks and authority, I can help you to establish strategies that will let's say fill that gap and I can if at some point we identify that we need digital PR people outreach etc. I will help you to solve that problem too but potentially not directly designing something myself right or getting in touch with potential bloggers or influencers myself necessarily right so we need to think about how do you want to be recognized how are you ranking for brand plus characteristic queries from top to bad or wrong ones right and and this is interesting right like many years ago I was working with this very well-known cruise line and uh they told me right at the beginning of the process. Oh, Alita that when you do a the keyword research that you will do, you will see that the top characteristic that is being searched along with cruises is cheap but we are not cheap because of the connotation of that work. We don't want to rank for cheap. If we at some point end up ranking for cheap because of yeah their popularity, their authority whatever okay but uh no they are not cheap. This is not actual term that they will look to rank for make direct efforts to rank for luxury cruises. Amazing adult cruises. Excellent. so many other characteristic that they actually want to pursue because they know that will match better the type of audience the type of audience that will actually end up buying for them because if they end up ended up ranking for cheap even if the search volume is huge like 1% of them will actually have the money to buy those chips those cruise chips at the end of the day right so it's it makes sense if we think about it so not only for terms that might look a little bit trivial I will say whenever you're working with a brand, you also need to take a look at reputation terms, related terms. So an example here, cruise lines, RER, there are a lot of queries about is RER safe, for example. Has RER crash? Thankfully, no. That is the answer if you ever fly. Yes, this is completely reasonable questions to ask about a brand whenever you are first using it, right? So, doing this assessment, this validation about the different type of characteristics that users are looking about your brand is critical. Understanding, monitoring and targeting your branded search demand across the different markets, right? And there is this very useful functionality from by the way that allows you to see visualize very quickly the way that the importance of the different topic clusters uh that I love because the the way that they are weighted and display are per characteristic or per topic and many many times you will see right there like a very important topic that this is something that is X or Y brand a malware. Is X or Y a a fraud? H are we actually already addressing that? Are we actually producing content or information in our site directly or third parties to clarify those doubts? not only necessarily ranking for the sake of ranking again but to clarify and to minimize customer questions and and customer journey type of uncertainty to facilitate conversion. Right? So look for common branded searches patterns across the customer journey before buying pricing versus reviews alternatives free plan sale Reddit along with your brand too because there will be threats very likely about it package and then even after login help client service integrations training careers many years ago I was in this panel with an SEO that was doing um a lot of internal work for a major company that had a very important customer service and she was telling us and this is how big brands also should tend to think and how we can apply and should be applying the importance of ranking for branded queries also for ours. So, she was mentioning how one of her KPIs and goals was to rank for all of the major customer support questions because every time that they ranked with one of their FAQ pages for those, it was a call less or a fewer call for the actual customer service, a real person that will actually have a much much much higher cost than producing that piece of content. Let's think about that. Right? So our work is not only to attract new clients but also to keep them happy to retain them to make them upsell cross-ell rather than leaving our clients products or services for others. Usually it's also much more straightforward and less costly to keep a client happy than to attract a new one too. So that is should be also part of our SEO process and we should optimize accordingly. So how's your brand shown in the results for these queries? Which sites some pages are ranking? Do you have an official brand presence on these pages or not? Many times these are again these are third party like Reddit and I'm not recommending here to go and spam Reddit or LinkedIn or Quora or whatever third party or Yelp or whatever UGC site or platform is shown here. But again maybe you should talk with your community manager about where are you engaging with our community with our customers where are you clarifying that are there any conversations where you we should be taking part as a brand and be recognized as a brand not trying to manipulate things and not disclosing where they were coming from what but I see that there's a reasonable question that the real concerns about X or Y products or service that we provide. So we are coming here where our customers are asking stuff to clarify that it's very reasonable tactic and actually very user friendly and customer friendly at the end of the day. What about those questions addressed through people also asking SERs? Which sites are ranking in there? Many times it's not our own site too and are you Google brand run brand run brand run brand run brand run brand run brand run brand run brand run brand run brand suggestions here for the branded queries you're the suggestion Google suggest queries like literally are this topics that you are actually addressing in one way or another already with your content strategy. Where are the top questions and queries in our own site internal search? Many times our customers end up searching there because we don't have proper pages categories linked at least obviously linked from our navigation or easily accessible through our navigation and they end up going in there. Do we already have them or not? Should we produce them or not? Does it make sense? What is the best way to move forward? Right? So we need to look to that and also those questions asked through the help center. Do we have already enough information to or publish information on our websites or parties to actually address those concerns? And what about conversational social platforms? We seen how again Reddit and many third party social platform are ranking now. We have tools nowadays like I love this one buzzabout.ai AI literally like for any topic like also a brand topic that we add in there it will go through Reddit, Tik Tok, Instagram, all major platforms and go through the conversations and mentions about the brand and it will leverage AI to come up with summaries and the sentiment of the conversation and will let us know if we want to go ahead and take action and show me the actual URLs of where these are happening. happening and the same with LLMs identify associated entities and related competitors uh the roundscale.ai tool that James was sharing about at the beginning of the day today. This is a tool that I have also been using and I find to be very very useful because it doesn't only tell me look yes for this type of prompts or queries that we know that we might be or not necessarily that popular yet unfortunately we don't yet have that information that reference uh but it will let us know where are the citations coming and which are the other players the other brands the other entities that are being recognized along ours. and where they are being mentioned that we are not. So we can understand the gap of the recognitions that we have we have there and the topics that they are recognized for that we are not and vice versa. I also created this personalized GPT using chat GPT to obtain more of this type of actionable information. If we enter our data here there and we have also resources now like this one like to go through all of these queries branded queries and analyze the sentiments of the mentions and the inclusions for all of them. How are you targeting all of these queries for now? Are you already ranking into position? So what I do here is literally I will grab all of the terms that I have obtained from all of these different platforms and data sources and I will create a very big keyword list query list using AF to go through them and see for for which of them are already ranking with my site. Good. And the to send me is good. Perfect. Great. Show me the others. The ones that I'm not yet targeting. The ones that are not yet ranking that is third party that are ranking that I need to start tackling. Right? And then what is the current blend? Let's take a look at our Google search console. What is the current blend of those branded versus non-branded searches you're already ranking for and the branded traffic going to the actual relevant page they should they should be going to, right? And what's their clickthrough rate and conversion? I created this looker studio dashboard to facilitate this to connect directly to your Google search console data and have this view of the evolution over time. This is something that I do also with my clients to facilitate um the monitoriization of all of this and to see if it is evolving or not. If we're improving also in our branded and unbranded organized metrics um along with them and then of course about those branded queries that you don't rank for, are they relevant for you to target target? Can you rank through your own site or do you need to piggyback third party websites right and start the conversations engaging other sites? And if your brand is not yet attracting major visibility, you might say, "Okay, Alita, this is great, but my my brand is not yet there. I have a handful of queries. What do I do?" Well, you can do this and start doing this also with your competitors to understand what is the behavior of your new customers, potential customers where you are not yet at that position and the questions that they are asking about your major player, the industry pioneer, the major competitor because this will likely be the questions that they might ask in the future about you. And you want to start creating resources and information to be ready. And you can use all of these insights to align your site content, PR and branding efforts to optimize and grow your authority. Right? Start with the fundamental. Is your brand recognized as an entity in the Google knowledge graph? Are the details correct and all process uh included? I love the SER API.com knowledge graph visualizer there. It literally tell us where all of the information of the knowledge panel for whatever brand is being brought from, right? Literally every single information is there. What is your salience score towards your brand query? Are there other sites recognized for it too? A car handy from audits.com. They they offer this free tool that allow us to validate that too. And we should specify all brand details through the organization schema on the site using of course every relevant topic uh property available and connecting with our further presence social presence in other sites. claim your knowledge panel and suggest changes in case you haven't yet to make the details accurate too. And we need to think that again it's not only about optimizing our our own website for this sort of queries but aligning every single company presence. I asked about it um a few months ago over LinkedIn and thankfully more than 50% of SEOs or 50% or so were already doing it which is great but 19 said no but I'll start later this year 27% no I wish but I have challenges do it now get by in hopefully show this information and start now optimize all of your brand social and external platforms presence consistently and link back to the main site And beyond your brand, what other relevant entities are recognized within your content? We have tools like inlinks. It will crawl your whole website, identify all of the topics, all of the entities, suggest you not only structured data to implement, but internal linking, ultimate internal linking in case yours is not quite yet there to well make it easier for Google to understand what your site content is about and facilitate Google relevance assessment. Right? And you should expand your own topic content strategy targeting your audience brand's concerns during your journey. So clearly showing who's behind the brand, its values, why they should trust you, who the brand ideal customers are, establishing overall eat, right? a consistent nap, customer testimonials, fast loading, uh secure and excellent page experience in general, easy to access content and support center, credentials, awards, company values, press and brand kit, company privacy policies, visible expert and experience, authorship, helping users to decide if they should buy your product versus your competitors with honesty and minimizing badly fit clients. I know that many companies hate the idea of creating comparison pages. Many legal people will advise again. The problem is when you do don't do them with honesty. That is the problem, right? If you do them with honesty like we are for these type of clients, these are our features. This is what we can help you with and this is what we cannot. And all of these other players, they can help you with this but not this. We're better if you try are trying to solve these sort of problems. We are the solution for you. But if you are not maybe go for with them and potentially you will say Allaya that is a lost customer. Yes, it's a lost bad fitting customer. Thank you very much. And your customer care will be very happy to see see them go even before they start wasting their co their their time and just churning in the second month because this is the expected behavior, right? It's not sell for the sake of sale, right? Good sales are not about that. It's about well establishing as a reliable well-feeding solution at the end of the day. Optimizing your support and community presence to run for relevant customer questions to solve their issues, right? While while minimizing the support cost what I mentioned before, engaging in thirdparty platforms where there are questions about your brand or not. So the other day I saw that the some people were asking about about learningseo.io. Uh there was a different conversation of this one. It was a little bit more negative that this one in uh some SEO Reddit uh subreddit out there. And I was like no I won't engage into that. You you should know where your customers are, where your idea clients are, audience are and if it is worthy for you or not. In this case I didn't even engage. It was not that negative this one uh because it was already replied through the thread, right? No need for me to spend time in that. Addressing your audience of wrong questions to to set them right with a twist. So some people for some reason they love to search about my age. Thank you very much if you think that I still have 20ome years. Um so I created this page many years ago. Actually has a very old school design generating with a script random. That's hilarious. No I don't have 150 years. Thank you very much. But yes, I'm not saying that you should create this stuff for the brand, but like take a look at what they are actually searching and try to address in it, right? And finally, creating resources and tools to address your audience doubts through their customer journey to establish a trusted as a trusted advisor, right? So, we see fresh books, they have their free info generator. Take a look at how many backlinks do they get with it. Uh this will not only establish your authority but generate branded queries, searches for your site for which you rank first and establish you as a leader in your sector as an actual expert attracting backlinks. The same with wise they have a IBAN checker IBAN calculator uh exchange rate resources. What's fundamental is that these resources are actually again align with what you offer with your expertise with your brand. It should be on brand. Here's a little examples like these a real life example of a couple of calculators that I am helping or I help already to build create um is a this is a huge fitness expert in the US. He has many millions multi-millions uh followers and subscribers in YouTube since many many years ago. So this is a real deal. It's not a like if I start to get fit and show my journey. No. Uh an actual expert anyway. there was certain gap in the topics that this person was ranking for and I was like look you clearly need a little bit of more popularity and more authority there's men's journal or fitness whatever magazine ranking for it healthline but you are not yet there unfortunately but you also don't need to establish your specific authority in your specific sector because you are not targeting all of these queries so we ended up creating a couple calculators that literally if I were creating it or any of us were creating it on sites that didn't have the real expertise very likely we will never rank for it a lot of health related queries connected topics right then we wouldn't rank for it this person literally published it in December and now in March they are ranking for many of these in the top 10 do they have millions of backlinks no they don't but they are a real authority they have all of other seniors in place and they are now creating worthy tooling useful actual on topic resources on brand resources and also remember to optimize existing non SEO campaigns. So take a look at notion faces. Notion literally created this faces avatars based on the avatars that they provide in within their tool for anybody to use. And I don't think I have no internal knowledge here but this is this doesn't seem like a backlink or link building play right is an actual product nice thing to do with the brand but it is attracting a lot of backlinks and if I were them I I will be cross-linking the hell out of it to the money pages for sure. And the same happens with Spotify rap generating traffic, mentions and backlinks each year in a spontaneous way because they have their brand established and they have a resource that is actually attractive and connected with I with what they offer. Right? So remember to align with community and PR to promote these resources and use them to connect and engage with your users. So as you can see it's about aligning every brand related activity online and offline community social media meetups and conferences guest posts webinar and podcast influencer marketing campaigns industry research and resources competitions and giveaways PR activity and media mentions everything and if you're unsure of where to start uh ran king uh new tools barro is actually excellent for this to identify where the conversations are happening beyond the usual ones that you might think about, right? And of course, monitor your brand mentions with tools like Buzzumo across the web, across social platforms to identify further opportunities and tackle them as soon as possible. And rinse and repeat. This should be a consistent continue evolving process in order to grow your authority. And this should be the aim, right? Even if I am not ranking in the top position or if there's an ugly AI overview that is not really fulfilling ranking above my site, I know that my users will click on me because they will actually recognize me as the authority as the brand that will really satisfy their need. Not that ugly thing above. Next time that you publish something, I expect that you ask, "Is this on brand anytime?" Oh, this crazy resource, this crazy backlink or link building campaign play, whatever. Is this on brand? This new advert, is this on brand? Is this on brand? This should be the question to ask. And if you want to learn more about brand optimizations, ideas, and opportunities, watch this crawling Mondays from earlier this year with Morty and Luca. We went through this and many more topics too. Uh the learning seo.io IO section about branding recognition and visibility uh in SEO. Lots of resources from a lot of very well-known and actually experienced experts, not only me, of course. And once you've started positioning and growing an authoritative brand that Google cannot overlook, it's time to fix your product problem. But that is beyond the scope of this presentation because I don't want James to kick me out of the stage. And at the end, it's all about the results, right? Not brand versus ran. You will tell me Alita this is not really a success story because it's the branded traffic that is growing crazily not the nonbranded but this is a rather new relatively new website and if the branded one is growing like this because all of the work that we're doing with the brand I expect that Google catch ups catches up with the rest of the stuff that we're doing targeting the non-branded queries the nonbranded topic because they should realize by now that we're actually the real deal right this is how we are going to tackle the product and the brand problem. Those shouldn't be the problem. Like we are the solution at the end of the day. Thank you very much. [Applause]
